# Spatiotemporal Graph k Means

We introduce _Spatiotemporal Graph k-means_ (STGkM), a novel, unsupervised method to cluster vertices within a dynamic network. Drawing inspiration from traditional k-means, STGkM finds both short-term dynamic clusters and a ``long-lived'' partitioning of vertices within a network whose topology is evolving over time. One of the main advantages of STGkM is that it has only one required parameter, namely k; we therefore include an analysis of the range of this parameter and guidance on selecting its optimal value.

## Repository Description

This repository implements Spatiotemporal Graph k-Means (STGkM) and provides scripts that run the method on synthetic and real datasets.

STGkM is implemented as an extension of the Rust k-medoids package. In order to run the code, you must first fork the following repository: https://github.com/OlgaD400/python-kmedoids. You will also have to have Cargo (rust programming language) installed. Then, run the following to compile the k-medoids package from source.

```# activate your desired virtual environment first
pip install maturin
git clone https://github.com/kno10/python-kmedoids.git
cd python-kmedoids
# build and install the package:
maturin develop --release
```

## Files

-   stgkm/distance_functions.py: Implementation of s-journey, as described in the related paper.
-   stgkm/graph_visualization.py: Code to visualize an evolving dynamic graph.
-   stgkm/helper_functions.py: Helpful functions for running STGkM.
-   stgkm/synthetic_graphs.py: Contains classes for all syntehtic graphs.
-   tests/tests.py: Contains tests for STGkM.
-   stgkm_figures.py: Contains functions for generating all visualizations from experiments.
-   DCDID/: Contains files for running DCDID (dynamic community detection based on information dynamics)

## Scripts

-   clique_cross_clique_script.py: Script for clique-cross-clique experiments.
-   compare_performance_script.py: Script for comparing the performance of different vertex clustering methods across various synthetic datasets.
-   reddit_script.py: Script for running STGkM on reddit data.
-   roll_call_data_creation_cript.py: Script to get data directly from the House of Representatives website and form dataframes.
-   roll_call_data_clustering_script.py: Script to run STGkM on roll call dataset.
-   semantic_scholar_script.py: Script to run STGkM on semantic scholar data.
-   synthetic_three_cluster_script.py: Script to run STGkM on synthetic three cluster dataset.
-   synthetic_two_cluster_script.py: Script to run STGkM on synthetic two cluster dataset.
-   theseus_clique_script.py: Script to run STGkM on theseus clique.

## Data

All synthetic data can be created with the scripts.
For the experimental data:

-   Roll call: this can be generated by `scripts/roll_call_data_creation_script.py`
-   Semantic scholar: this data is generated by `scripts/semantic_scholar_script.py`
-   Reddit: this data is from SNAP at: https://snap.stanford.edu/data/soc-RedditHyperlinks.html
